#Leaf Morphology

## Intro

I want to make biologically plausible images of the leaves of imaginary tree species. If that sounds exciting to you, then stick tight because that's what we're going to do. Procedural generation of trees is a relatively common thing but it typically involves decorating the trees with leaves that are either designed by a human artist and only placed by the procedural system or are very simple. I want leaves that have interesting diversity and are recongizable as belonging to a particular species which is itself procedurally generated. In order to do that I need a system for procedurally generating non-trivial leaves. I'm going to do it by implementing a simulation of leaf morphogenesis based on [this paper](http://algorithmicbotany.org/papers/leaves.nph.2017.pdf).

### What is morphogenesis
Morphogenesis is the creation of shape. It refers to the processes by which shape emerges from some growth process, not always but usually biological. The way in which an undifferentiated ball of embryonic cells grows into the very particular shape of a kitten is morphogenesis. In this project we will be looking at the morphogenetic process by which a bulb of meristem (roughly, the plant equivelent of stem tissue in animals) grows into a leaf that has a complex shape specific to the plant's species. We'll take that process and turn in into a system for procedurally generating species specific leaves.

### What is procedural generation
In a typical artistic process an artist will go through some process, whether that be preparing and manipulating clay or painting pixels in a digital image, with the goal of producing some final outcome, a work of art. In procedural generation the artist, rather than engaging in a process to design a final artistic object, designs the process by which artistic objects can be created. That movement from the object as the final project to the process as the final product is the key characteristic of procedural generation and gives it both it's strengths and weaknesses. The strength of the approach lies in it's ability to work with levels of detail and at scales that human artists would struggle with. A human couldn't individually sculpt every leaf in a forest in an entire lifetime but a procedural system could do it in seconds. Even an artist with a deep knowledge of biology would struggle to keep in mind the effects of hormone trasport through a plant's tissues as they sketched, but those kinds of details are well within the capabilities of a procedural system. On the flip side it is very difficult for a procedural system to have even a crude awareness of the aesthetic impact of the work it produces where a human artist can judge and react emotionally to every detail of a work as it is produced. The procedural systems must be painstakingly designed to limit their ability to make non-aesthetic choices which often also limits the overall diversity and interest of their output. This system will play to the strength of procedural generation while stearing away from it's weaknesses by simulating in some detail a system which in the real world reliably produces objects which humans find beautiful and interesting, the leaves of plants.

## Expectations/Outline

I will begin by discussing the model the paper proposes and then move to implementing it as a Rust library suitable for use in games or art projects. I'm using Rust both because it's a language well adapted to these kinds of projects and because I intend to use the library myself for a project which is already written in Rust. I'll be focusing as much on the process of writing a casual (ie. artistic rather than scientific) adaptation of a scientific model because I... I don't know why. Just because.

## Overview of the paper

The paper's model 
